docs: add metrics documentation (#607)
encoredev/encore: docs/observability/metrics.md

---
seotitle: Monitoring your backend application with custom metrics

> seodesc: See how you can monitor your backend application using Prometheus and Encore.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
seodesc: See how you can monitor your backend application using Grafana Cloud and Encore.
```

Author: Maybe we should just drop that and say "using Encore"

title: Metrics
---

Having easy access to useful metrics is a critical part of application observability.

Encore solves this by providing automatic dashboards of all the common application-level
metrics you need, for each backend service.

Encore also makes it easy to define custom metrics for your application.
Once defined they automatically show up in the Encore metrics dashboard.

> By default Encore exports metrics data to your Cloud Provider's built-in monitoring service.

Reviewer: Is 'Cloud Provider' capitalized intentionally?

```suggestion
By default Encore exports metrics data to your cloud provider's built-in monitoring service.
```

Author: Sounds good

> We're working on adding integrations to external services like Grafana and Datadog.

Reviewer: I'd remove this line.
